The article explains how data science is evolved over years.
A professional who uses scientific methods to extract and produce meaning from raw data is referred to as a "Data Scientist." A competent data scientist must be able to explore data and use rigorous statistical analysis to become one with it. Good data scientists, on the other hand, are familiar with the steps involved in deploying production systems and are willing to get their hands dirty by writing code that cleans up data or performs key system functions. Data scientists should not blindly churn out methodology without thinking about how it will be implemented.
In the early 1960s, data analysis is considered a very difficult field also some believed that data science can be achieved without statistics. After few years they have addressed the importance of statistics and how it plays a major role in continuing concentration on traditional topics such as how data analysis is supported by it. In 2001, William Cleveland's article "Data Science: An action plan for expanding the technical areas of the field" breifed about six technical areas of research to be conducted across each department. Also, he proposed six activities for allocating efforts. In today's world, machine learning is widely used along with data analysis and visualization. Machine learning is a fast-growing field at the convergence of computer science and statistics that focuses on detecting patterns in data. It is responsible for a slew of technological advancements, ranging from personalized product suggestions to cell phone speech recognition.
To conclude, Each definition of data science that has been presented involves some extension of academic statistics and machine learning. The “GDS” variation explicitly mentioned in this article is based on decades of data analysis and modeling knowledge. The main incentive for expanding to data science in this type is intellectual. There may be a high demand for the abilities instilled by GDS in the future; nonetheless, the basic questions that drive the area are scientific, not industrial.